(from left) The Vice Dean of Marine Technology Faculty ITS, Dr Eng Rudi Waluyo P ST MT, The Vice Rector IV of ITS, Bambang Pramujati ST MSc Eng PhD, The President of PT RINA Indonesia, Enzo di Capua, and The Business Development Manager of PT RINA Indonesia, Jabad Eko Permodo, after signing the MoU at ITS Rectorate Building

ITS Campus, ITS News – Students are one of the stimulus for the industrial world after they enter it. Therefore, Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember (ITS) has committed to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with PT RINA Indonesia to prepare internship opportunity for ITS students, on Wednesday (28/2).

The President of PT RINA Indonesia, Enzo di Capua, revealed that human resource development (HRD) is one of the crucial aspects for the industrial world. It is related to the need of innovation development in technology and decarbonization efforts in the maritime sector. “The significant demand as a result of technological advancement requires the availability of excellent human resources,” he said.

Enzo believes that the MoU signing between ITS and PT RINA Indonesia will be a step towards bridging the gap between industry and educational institutions. This step will prepare students before entering the real industrial world. “This collaboration will provide opportunity for students to gain new experiences and develop their skill sets,” he added.

Kepala Departemen Teknik Sistem Perkapalan ITS Beny Cahyono ST MT PhD (kiri) menyampaikan aspirasinya agar mahasiswa dapat melakukan kolaborasi tugas akhir dengan PT RINA Indonesia
The Head of Marine Systems Engineering Department ITS, Beny Cahyono ST MT PhD (left), expressing his aspirations so that students can be able to collaborate their final assignments with PT RINA Indonesia

In the future, this opportunity will be opened for six students from several departments in the Marine Technology Faculty (FTK) ITS. However, it is also possible to increase the number and open opportunity for those who come from other departments in different faculty. “This reminds our first initiative in Indonesia, so it will be reviewed later. Furthermore, there will be a possibility to expand in the future,” The President of PT RINA Indonesia continued.

Meanwhile, The Vice Rector IV for Research, Innovation, Collaboration, and Alumni Affairs of ITS, Bambang Pramujati ST MSc Eng PhD, explained that ITS welcomes the upcoming tangible collaboration with this multinational company. He added that students’ real experience in the industry will greatly impact their future careers. “Learning in an industrial environment will provide perspectives, connections, and new knowledge which cannot be obtained in the classroom,” he concluded.

Wakil Rektor IV ITS Bambang Pramujati ST MScEng PhD dan Direktur PT RINA Indonesia Enzo di Capua berdiskusi mengenai kolaborasi yang merupakan inisiasi kerja sama kedua pihak
The Vice Rector IV of ITS, Bambang Pramujati ST MScEng PhD, and The President of PT RINA Indonesia, Enzo in Capua, discussing the initiative collaboration between the two parties

Moreover, the lecturer from the Mechanical Engineering Department hopes that this collaboration can continue in the field of innovation and research as well. In line with innovation development in ITS, the role of classification institution such as PT RINA Indonesia is needed so that the nation’s innovations can be applied abroad. “Many research projects at ITS, such as the Multifunctional Floating Platform or Autonomous Bathymetric Surface Vehicle, have the potential to be classified,” he concluded.

The MoU signing ceremony held at the ITS Rectorate Building was also attended by the leaders of FTK ITS. In the future, this collaboration will continue to the adjustment of the course conversions and the practice in the work field, workshops related to ITS innovation, and collaboration with PT RINA Indonesia for students’ final projects. (ITS Public Relations)